docs: initial start of the maintainership docs under the bounty program (#1894)
asyncapi/community: docs/maintainership-guide/general-information/mentor/project-ideas-tips.md

---
title: Successful Project Ideas Tips
weight: 100
---

The project idea you mentor is the backbone of your AMP experience. A well-scoped, impactful idea not only attracts the right contributor but also ensures a smoother, more rewarding mentorship journey. Here’s what mentors should know and follow when proposing and managing project ideas:

## One Idea, One Contributor

Every AMP project idea is intended for **one dedicated contributor**, with the **exception of documentation-related** projects, which may allow for more than one collaborative effort if clearly scoped. While several applicants may express interest in the same project, **only one proposal will be accepted per idea**. Team-based submissions are not allowed for technical projects; each contributor is solely responsible for their project's execution and success.

## Prioritize Interest & Alignment

> Some contributors may flock to a popular idea, while others apply without genuine interest or understanding. As a mentor, it’s important to identify applicants who truly resonate with the project. Look for passion, curiosity, and alignment with the project’s purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some contributors may be drawn to a popular idea, while others apply without genuine interest or a proper understanding. As a mentor, it’s important to identify applicants who genuinely align with the project. Look for passion, curiosity, and alignment with the project’s purpose.
```
